Notes on the Weeks 2012 replication.

DV unit: dyad-year, using dyadic MID data from Maoz (2005).

Cryptic Variables:
s_wt_glo: weighted global s-score; picks up similarity of alliance
portfolios.

s_lead: similarity of state's alliance portfolio with system leader

contig: dummy for contiguity (or less than 24 miles of separation)

logdist: log of distance between capitals


II. Replication file:
"." is the internal STAT marker of missing data, so the syntax of "if
[variable] !=." like subsetting.

The * ending on the "pcyrsmzinits*" variable in the logit call is
STATA synatx for "all variables that start with pcyrsmzinits. Which
means: pcyrsmzinits1, pcyrsmzinits2, pcyrsmzinits3.


III. Replication itself.

** Documentation of issue with missing data and clustered standard errors

-  NOTE: Results occur with a version of the data that subsets on
   whether “democracy_1” is not NA; NOT whether all missing
   observations are removed. If all missing observations are removed,
   even in a version of the data that is subsetted to only have the
   variables used in the regression, the estimated coefficient results
   are different. Also, the number of observations drops
   dramatically. 

What is weird though is that without removing NA values, clustering
the standard errors crashes. Removing the NA values dramatically
changes the number of recorded observations.  

Next step (12/9): run the .do file in STATA and see what the output
is. Did so, her calls report the same N as the paper, for table
1.2. Ran statas's "gen byte used=e(sample)" command, which should
provide a record of which observations were used in the regression.
From there, saved to desktop (saving to Dropbox fails, will move over
by hand).

Sources for the used command:
http://www.stata.com/statalist/archive/2009-08/msg00386.html/


* online appendix now at: https://users.polisci.wisc.edu/jweeks/WeeksAPSR2012WebAppendix.pdf


AMEN Scripts

1. WeeksAmenBuld.R takes the data and put it into AMN form


2. To run AMEN models: 

2a. Start with AMENConfig.sh. This will modify config.R which passes parameters to WeeksAMEN_general.R. It will also echo the parameters into a logfile.

2b. WeeksAMEN_general.R is the bare-bones template, that would require individual hand-tuning to cycle through the latent dimensions
The README.TXT file provides instructions.

2c. Note that WeeksAMEN_general will save the output demarcated with latDim and date that it finished running. This is intended to keep track of runtimes and avoiding overwriting the results with different runs, but is a little bit irritating when it comes to loading the output.)

3. WeeksBasicPosterior prints out graphics to assess convergence

4. Crossvalidation scripts: 
4a. AMEN cross validation is done via: weeksCrossVal_BasicWorking.R
As with the normal AMEN run, I used the same outline script and ran them in parallel  by using my computers’ cores to parallelize the runs. So: open terminal, and then initialize the script with a different parameters configuration file.

5. Results graphs are: 
5a. plotCoefComparisons.R
5b. PlotAUCPRComparisons.R


